welcome back to BBC News well in the
last few minutes the un's top Court the
international court of justice has
delivered an advisory opinion outlining
that Israel's settlement of Palestinian
territories are in breach of
international law now it had been
examining the issue since the beginning
of last year uh I think we can take a
quick listen now to that opinion being
given
live the court considers it important to
stress as it did in its wall advisor
opinion I quote the Urgent necessity for
the United Nations as a whole to
redouble its efforts to bring the
Israeli Palestinian conflict which
continues court giving its opinion live
there in the heg I want to leave that
momentarily and just bring in our
security correspondent Frank Gardner uh
into this and Frank just explain to
viewers at home what exactly the court
has been looking into CU important to
underline that this has been going on
since before the October 7th uh attacks
by ham and the start of the Gaza
War that's right so this this this is
the international court of justice not
the international criminal court it's
issuing a um an advisory it's not
legally binding but it will be seen as a
basis for international law and it's
looking at it's examining the legality
of Israel's occupation of Palestinian
territor since 1967 particularly
focusing on the West Bank and East
Jerusalem and settlements therein and
it's a pretty damning verdict on
Israel's actions and policies there I'm
just going to because this is incredibly
legales and as you can imagine there was
a big Preamble as to what the framework
of their observ their work has been this
is delivered by the spokesperson for 15
judges they've been examining this since
2022 they took evidence throughout
February from around 50 countries and
their conclusions in brief are that
Israel's policies and practices are in
breach of international law the
continued presence of Israel in the
occupied territories is illegal and they
call on Israel to cease all new
settlement activity it particularly
focuses on the settlements and the
treatment of Palestinians in those
territories now Israel I think will um
they're unlikely to accept this in the
past that they have not accepted the
legality of uh rulings when it comes to
their occupation and Palestinian
territories but I think it's it's a
pretty hostile verdict for Israel this
okay Frank well we have to leave it
there I'm afraid but Frank Gardner
thanks for that uh giving that context
on that icj ruling thank you now a
Russian court has